#MOS Excel Lab

### 🛠️ Lab Setup
Before starting, you need to download the resource files.

1. **Click once** anywhere inside the Windows VM screen to ensure it has focus.
2. Click the link below to automatically download and open the files:

[**🚀 Click to Download Lab Files**](lab:TypeText?text=powershell%20-ExecutionPolicy%20Bypass%20-Command%20%22Invoke-WebRequest%20-Uri%20'https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/PL-900-Microsoft-Power-Platform-Fundamentals/blob/master/Allfiles/Labs/CampusData.zip'%20-OutFile%20'%24env%3AUSERPROFILE\Downloads\LabFiles.zip'%3B%20explorer.exe%20shell%3ADownloads%22{Enter})

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A PowerShell window will briefly appear inside the VM while the download completes.

##Get Excel ready to use in the Lab environment

Hello **@lab.User.FirstName**, welcome to this MOS Excel Lab. Use the instructions below to get started with this lab. 
- []Use the **Password** in the **Resources** tab to login to windows
- []**Launch Microsoft excel**
- []When prompted select **I have a product key**
- []Before entering the product key, **close the prompt window**.

	> [!Alert]  **Note** This is a licensed copy of Excel, but it cannot be activated in the lab environment.

- []**Accept the license agreement** and click through the remaining prompts
- []Close the Excel App

You're now ready to move on to the activities, using the **navigation below**.

## **Lessons**
You can use the links in the dropdown below to **jump to different lessons**:

> [+Help]Jump to Lesson
>
> - [**Lesson 1:** Introducing Excel](#lesson-1)
- [**Lesson 2:** Constructing Cell Data](#lesson-2)
- [**Lesson 3:** Using Formulas](#lesson-3)
- [**Lesson 4:** Formatting the Worksheet](#lesson-4)
- [**Lesson 5:** Viewing and Printing Workbooks](#lesson-5)
- [**Lesson 6:** Working with Charts](#lesson-6)
- [**Lesson 7:** Organising Data](#lesson-7)
- [**Lesson 8:** Using Data Tools](#lesson-8)

===
#**Lesson 1**
!IMAGE[87u4bmgm.jpg](87u4bmgm.jpg)
[Return to intro](#mos-excel-lab)
## Learn to use the Ribbon
In this exercise, you will start Excel and access some of the tools to see how they work.


- [] 1. Launch Microsoft Excel.
The Excel startup screen appears. From here, you can choose to open a workbook or create a new one using a workbook template.
- [] 2. Click Blank workbook to create a new workbook.
Now access the Backstage. The Office Backstage is used to perform the file management functions such as printing, sharing, exporting, or changing Excel options.
- [] 3. Click File to access the Backstage.
- [] 4. Click the Back button to return to the workbook.
- [] 5. Use the mouse pointer to point to the View tab.
Notice how the View tab displays in darker text and is highlighted, even though you have not clicked it.
- [] 6. Click the View tab to activate it.
Notice that the name of the tab appears in bold and that a green line displays below the tab name, indicating it is the current tab.
- [] 7. On the View tab, in the Workbook Views group, point to Page Layout.
Notice how the color of the button changes.
- [] 8. Click Page Layout to change the view.
- [] 9. On the View tab, in the Workbook Views group, click Normal to switch back to the default view.
- [] 10. Move the mouse pointer to the Zoom slider at the bottom right of the screen. Click and drag the slider to the right until you see the zoom percentage change to approximately 200%.
- [] 11. At the far right of the Ribbon, click the Collapse the Ribbon button.
Notice how you now can see a few more rows on the screen. To display a Ribbon tab again temporarily, simply click any of the Ribbon tabs.
- [] 12. Click the Home tab, then click the Formulas tab.
- [] 13. Click a blank area of the Excel title bar to hide the Ribbon again.
- [] 14. Click and drag the slider the other way so the percentage changes to 50%, then drag the slider to return the zoom to 100%.
The Ribbon can be reset to remain open.
- [] 15. Click the Ribbon Display Options button, then click Show Tabs and Commands to re-display the entire Ribbon.
- [] 16. Now move the mouse pointer to the top of the screen and click some of the tabs to see how the commands are categorized and grouped on the tabs.
- [] 17. Press ALT to display the keyboard shortcuts on the tab.
- [] 18. Press P to display the Page Layout tab.
- [] 19. Then press M to display the Margins options.

!IMAGE[g9xaxy8l.jpg](g9xaxy8l.jpg)
- [] 20. Press ESC to cancel this option.
Notice that the keys are still displayed on the tab, so you can continue to use the keyboard to choose another command.
- [] 21. Press ESC twice more until the keyboard shortcuts no longer appear.
- [] 22. Keep the workbook open for the next exercise.
