##Learn to enter text data

In this exercise, you will enter text into a worksheet. The text will serve as labels or titles for other cells into which you later enter numeric data.
- [] 1. In the blank workbook from the previous exercise, click in cell A2.
- [] 2. Type: Price Quote and press ENTER.
Notice the current active cell is now A3. When you press ENTER, Excel completes the entry of data in the current cell, then moves the cell pointer to the next cell down.
- [] 3. Press ENTER twice to move down two rows.
- [] 4. In cell A5, type: Airfare and press ENTER.
- [] 5. In cell A6, type: Hotel and press ENTER.
- [] 6. In cell A7, type: Car Rental and press ENTER.
- [] 7. In cell A8, type: Taxes and press ENTER.
>[!note] **Note: If you entered the wrong value into a cell, simply select the cell and type the entire correct entry again to replace the incorrect value.**

Now try a feature called AutoComplete, in which Excel determines whether you are repeating the same text as in a previous cell and completes it for you. If it is the text you want, you simply press ENTER to accept it.
- [] 8. In cell A9, type: A.

!IMAGE[ytk5b37c.jpg](ytk5b37c.jpg)

Notice that Excel automatically offers you a text label, based on your previous entry. You can now press ENTER to accept it or continue typing the value that you want.
- [] 9. Ignore the suggested label and continue typing the rest of the text: irport Fees and press ENTER.

Notice that the text extends further than the default column width for this text entry. If you enter data in the next column, the part of this new label that overflows into the next column will appear to be cut off.
- [] 10. In cell A12, type: Airline: and press ENTER.

Notice this time that the AutoComplete feature did not turn on. This is because of the blank cells (A10 and A11) that are preventing Excel from "looking up" a previous similar value in this column.
- [] 11. Enter the following in the remaining cells:
Cell Text
A13 Hotel:
B12 Great West Airline
B13 Hotel Zathura
- [] 12. Leave the workbook open for the next exercise.
